DOC: detailed description of QCT (#54)
TheAxonLab/HCPh-fMRI-tasks: README.md

* Quality-control task (QCT): [`task-qct_bold.psyexp`](https://github.com/TheAxonLab/HCPh-fMRI-tasks/blob/master/task-qct_bold.psyexp)
* Resting-state fMRI (rest): [`task-rest_bold.psyexp`](https://github.com/TheAxonLab/HCPh-fMRI-tasks/blob/master/task-rest_bold.psyexp)

## Quality control task
The task contains a visual trial block, an eye-movement trial block, and a finger-tapping trial block.
The task was adapted from «Version A» of the task proposed by Harvey et al.:

     Harvey J, Demetriou L, McGonigle J, Wall MB. 2018. A short, robust brain activation
     control task optimised for pharmacological fMRI studies. PeerJ 6:e5540
     doi:https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.5540

> The original implementation of their task is found at [mattwall1103/fMRI-Control-Task](https://github.com/mattwall1103/fMRI-Control-Task). Please cite their paper whenever you use their code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The original implementation of their task is found at [mattwall1103/fMRI-Control-Task](https://github.com/mattwall1103/fMRI-Control-Task).
```

The most prominent changes to the original task are:

- Elimination of the auditive block (since we do not plan the parcipant to wear headphones)
- Substitution of the motor task (button pressing) with a simple finger-tapping paradigm
- Enabling eye-tracking with our SR instruments device.

### Detailed description of QCT

> The QCT consists of four paradigms whose presentation order and realization is randomly selected. The background for all tasks is grey (HEX #808080). The units reported here correspond to the normalised unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The QCT consists of four paradigms whose presentation order and realization are randomly selected.
The background for all tasks is black (HEX #000000).
The units reported here correspond are *Psychopy*'s "normalized units".
```

Author: @oesteban The background is black, really?

Reviewer: Yup, so much better in many ways

Author: Ok who knew. I have to fetch the updates of the code and verify what I wrote then.

Author: @oesteban Ok it turns out I had the latest version of the task. Thus, can you double-check that the stimuli's colors and appearance correspond to what you see in the scanner?
I can't run the task, so I was trying to infer info from the psychopy design, but apparently, I was not so successful.

Reviewer: I can tell you what I see during the session by heart. And for sure the background is black :D

I'll check because the experiments we are using could have some very minimal changes. We should add a git tag with the version we are using. I can take that issue.

Reviewer: > I can't run the task, so I was trying to infer info from the psychopy design, but apparently, I was not so successful.

Our SOPs are there exactly to avoid this. I think it would be important for you to achieve a working psychopy installation on your laptop. Not because of testing the task (that too), but because we want to be sure others can replicate our settings.

I am 99% convinced that if you follow the SOPs to the letter (from Ubuntu version and psychopy installation steps all the way to how to simulate the MMBT-S with `socat` and deploying our trigger forward service), you should be able to run the four tasks.

> 1. Visual gratting pattern: Visual trials consist of a centrally-presented sine-wave grating subtending approximately 10° of visual angle and with a spatial frequency of 1.2 cycles/degree. The grating drifted laterally at a rate of 6 cycles per second, and the direction of drift reversed every 0.5s (Harvey et al. 2018). A small red, circle fixation point is also present at the centre of the screen. The stimulus total duration is 3s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Visual gratting pattern: Visual trials consist of a centrally-presented sine-wave grating subtending approximately 10° of visual angle and with a spatial frequency of 1.2 cycles/degree. The grating drifts laterally at a rate of 6 cycles per second, and the direction of the drift is reversed every 0.5s (Harvey et al. 2018). A small red, circular fixation point is also displayed in the center of the screen. The total duration of the stimulus is 3s.
```

> 1. Visual gratting pattern: Visual trials consist of a centrally-presented sine-wave grating subtending approximately 10° of visual angle and with a spatial frequency of 1.2 cycles/degree. The grating drifts laterally at a rate of 6 cycles per second, and the direction of the drift is reversed every 0.5s (Harvey et al. 2018). A small red, circular fixation point is also displayed in the center of the screen. The total duration of the stimulus is 3s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Visual gratting pattern: Visual trials consist of a centrally-presented sine-wave grating subtending approximately 10° of visual angle and with a spatial frequency of 1.2 cycles/degree.
    The grating drifts laterally at a rate of 6 cycles per second, and the direction of the drift is reversed every 0.5s (Harvey et al. 2018).
    A small green, circular fixation point is also displayed in the center of the screen.
    The total duration of the stimulus is 3s.
```

> 2. Fingertapping: Motor trials correspond to a simple fingertapping task of the left or right hand. While the word 'LEFT' or 'RIGHT' is presented on the screen, the participant is instructed to tap their thumb on each of their other four fingers of the hand designated by the word, sequentially with all fingers and reversing the direction at the extremes (your pointer and your pinkie). The word 'LEFT', respectively 'RIGHT', is presented in white 0.5 units to the left from the center of the screen, respectively to the right, for 5s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Fingertapping: Motor trials correspond to a simple finger-tapping task of the left or right hand.
    The participant is instructed to tap their thumb on each of their other four fingers of the hand indicated on the screen (presenting the words 'LEFT' or 'RIGHT'), sequentially with all fingers and reversing the direction at the extremes (from pointer to pinkie).
    The words 'LEFT' or 'RIGHT', are presented in random order, in white color, and 0.5 units to the left from the center of the screen, respectively to the right, for 5s.
```

> 3. Gaze movement: Cognitive trials consist of a serie of fixation point moving across the screen. The fixation point is built by a small green (HEX #00ff00) point with a larger concentric black circle (radius ratio is ~2.2). The participant is instructed to focus his gaze on the center of the fixation point and follow it with his eyes while taking care of not moving the head. The fixation point moved to six different locations corresponding to the compass locations North–East, East, South–East, North–West, West, and South–West. These points were mapped on a circle with a radius of approximately 8.75° of visual angle. Each location was maintained for 0.5 s, and all six were presented (in a random order) in each three second trial (Harvey et al. 2018).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.Gaze movement: Cognitive trials consist of a series of fixation points moving across the screen. Each fixation point is composed of a small green dot (HEX #00ff00) surrounded by a larger concentric black circle (radius ratio is ~2.2). Participants are instructed to focus their gaze on the center of the fixation point and follow it with their eyes while avoiding head movements. The fixation point moves to six different locations corresponding to the compass directions North–East, East, South–East, North–West, West, and South–West. These points are mapped on a circle with a radius of approximately 8.75° of visual angle. Each location is maintained for 0.5 s, and all six are presented (in a random order) in each three-second trial (Harvey et al., 2018).
```

> 3.Gaze movement: Cognitive trials consist of a series of fixation points moving across the screen. Each fixation point is composed of a small green dot (HEX #00ff00) surrounded by a larger concentric black circle (radius ratio is ~2.2). Participants are instructed to focus their gaze on the center of the fixation point and follow it with their eyes while avoiding head movements. The fixation point moves to six different locations corresponding to the compass directions North–East, East, South–East, North–West, West, and South–West. These points are mapped on a circle with a radius of approximately 8.75° of visual angle. Each location is maintained for 0.5 s, and all six are presented (in a random order) in each three-second trial (Harvey et al. 2018).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.Gaze movement: Cognitive trials involve a series of fixation points moving across the screen.
    Each fixation point comprises a small green dot (HEX #00ff00) surrounded by a larger concentric gray circle (radius ratio is ~2.2).
    Participants are instructed to focus their gaze on the center of the fixation point and follow it with their eyes while avoiding head movements.
    The fixation point moves to six different locations corresponding to the compass directions North–East, East, South–East, North–West, West, and South–West.
    These points are mapped on a circle with a radius of approximately 8.75° of visual angle.
    Each location is maintained for 0.5 s, and all six are presented (in random order) in each three-second trial (Harvey et al. 2018).
```

> 4. Fixation: Blank trials consist of a fixation point presented at the center of the screen for 3s. The fixation point is built the same way as in the gaze movement task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Fixation: Blank trials consist of a fixation point presented at the center of the screen for 3s.
    The fixation point is built like in the gaze movement task.
```
